# Configuring wallet

Wallet configuration parameters worth paying attention to when configuring wallet for the first time:
* `ergo.wallet.seedStrengthBits` - the length of a seed in case it will be generated by the node. Note: the stronger the seed the longer the mnemonic sentence length is. Options: `128, 160, 192, 224, 256`
* `ergo.wallet.secretStorage.secretDir` - directory where secret will be stored in encrypted form
* `ergo.wallet.mnemonicPhraseLanguage` - language to be used in mnemonic sentence. Options: `"chinese_simplified", "chinese_traditional", "english", "french", "italian", "japanese", "korean", "spanish"`

# Using wallet for the first time

All the interactions with wallet interface at this stage could only be done through node REST API.

1. Wallet needs to be initialized when running for the first time. Two options are available here: 
    * Initialize it from scratch (seed will be generated by the node) - POST, `/wallet/init`, 'body: {"pass": "123abc"}' (Note: don't forget to save mnemonic phrase the node will respond with)
    * Restore wallet from existing seed. Choosing this option you have to provide your mnemonic phrase - POST, `/wallet/restore`, `body: {"pass": "123abc", "mnemonic": "abandon abandon ...", "mnemonicPass": "098cba"}` (Note: `mnemonicPass` field is required only in case your mnemonic phrase was protected by additional password at creation)
2. When wallet is initialized it needs to be unlocked - POST, `/wallet/unlock`, 'body: {"pass": "123abc"}'. (Note: use password you chosen at initialization stage)

Evaluate `2.` every time the node is restarted or the wallet is locked.

# Locking wallet
Wallet could be locked - all currently loaded secrets are flushed from the memory. It could also be through the node REST API - GET, `/wallet/lock`. (Note: you will need to unlock wallet again (`2.` from the previous paragraph) to mine using internal miner, sign transactions or track boxes)